1. Title:
Protection of Threatened Human Rights Defenders and Regulation of Digital Platforms.
2. Topic:
The protection of threatened human rights defenders, especially women, and the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to map risks on digital platforms.
3. Short description of the topic’s relevance and gaps in existing research:
In Brazil, violence is a fundamental and structural phenomenon that persists even after re-democratization. In the post-1988 Constitution period, violence persists as an instrument of the State, but also as a way of appropriating natural resources, and intimidating people who defend human rights, the environment, and freedom of expression.
According to the Brazilian Ministry of Health's Mortality Information System (SIM/MS), in 2019 there were 45,503 homicides in Brazil, corresponding to a rate of 21.7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. . In addition to homicides, 16,648 Violent Deaths due to Undetermined Causes were recorded. 
Black people (the sum of black and brown people classified by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics) represented 77% of homicide victims, with a homicide rate per 100 100,000 inhabitants of 29.2. Comparatively, among non-black people (the sum of yellow, white, and Indigenous people) the rate was 11.2 for every 100 thousand, which means that the chance of a black person being murdered is 2.6 times higher than that of a non-black. In other words, in 2019, the rate of lethal violence against black people was 162% higher than among non-black people. 
Regarding the gender perspective, in 2019, 3,737 women were murdered in Brazil. Black women were also, proportionally, more victims of homicide than white women, since they represented 66.0% of the total number of women murdered in Brazil, with a mortality rate per 100 thousand inhabitants of 4.1, compared to the rate of 2.5 for non-black women. 
Regarding the violent deaths of human rights defenders, according to the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights Defenders, between 2015 and 2019, 1,323 human rights defenders were murdered around the world (Human Rights Council, 2021, §41). More than 70% of these cases were concentrated in Latin America and the Caribbean, and in 166 of them, the victims were women. Brazil came in second place in this global ranking, with 174 murders of human rights defenders, behind only Colombia, with 379.
Human rights defenders face discredit, persecution, threats of the most diverse forms and configurations, arbitrary arrests and detentions, stigmatization and criminalization, silencing, physical, psychological, sexual, and digital attacks, kidnapping, torture, and murder. In this sense, concern about threats and deaths of leaders and human rights defenders, especially indigenous people, was part of the final transition report from Bolsonaro's Presidency to Lula's. 
According to the Brazilian Committee of Human Rights Defenders,  “What structures violence against human rights defenders is a state anchored in racism and sexism and an economic system in which the profit and wealth of some are worth more than the lives of certain people. The more a person, or group, is outside a white, male, sexually normative and rich standard, the more they will suffer from inequalities.” 
Specifically about women human rights defenders, according to UN Women, “the work of human rights defenders has always been confronted by violence. The structural causes of this violence go back not only to conflicting interests about the most diverse agendas in which they operate but also to deviations from social roles and expectations traditionally reserved for women”. 
On digital platforms, especially on media and social networks, threats to human rights defenders, communicators, and environmentalists are gaining strength. Such places have been spaces for the propagation of hate speech,  characterized by the collective use of language to repeatedly highlight codes of commotion and grammar of belonging and segregation, inciting collective action that propagates, escalates, and intensifies the repetition and risk of harm to people, communities or populations.[15] 
The most contemporary technologies of hate are based on the history of violence, extermination, deliberate forgetfulness, predatory extractivism, and the continued contempt of victims, phenomena that mark Brazilian historical formation. Therefore, the victims of hate speech and extremism are also people and communities already affected by systems of oppression and inequalities in Brazilian society, such as patriarchy, misogyny, LGBTQIphobia, racism, ableism, and ageism, among others. forms of intersectional crossing of discrimination and oppression. 
The dissemination, on an exponential scale, of targeted hate messages to the population, systematically and constantly, intends to mobilize certain fears and resentments, based on the organic action of followers to foster hate communities. The consequences can overwhelm digital platforms generate psychological damage and even contribute to victims' suicides. Furthermore, some threats can be geolocated and specific, going beyond hate speech and culminating in attacks and murders.
During election periods, complaints related to hate speech on digital platforms increase due to its use as an effective means of growing political capital; due to the omission of digital platforms about profiles that use hate speech, political violence and encourage extremist acts against democracy, as well as due to the ineffectiveness of the Judiciary and, above all, the Electoral Court, in curbing the use political violence and hate speech. 
Therefore, in addition to security regulation, it is necessary to define ways to protect people through the collaboration of technology companies that own digital platforms.  Through the principles of transparency and non-surveillance of human rights defenders, a selection of cases will be carried out to define expressions that can identify threats subject to geolocation and, with the contribution of programmers, it is intended to build a pilot to be used by such companies to identify possible risks and alert government protection programs. 
4. General objective:
In the dimension of the effectiveness of the constitutional right to security, propose risk mapping on digital platforms as an additional mechanism for protecting threatened human rights defenders, especially women.
5. Specific objectives:
5. 1. Understand the effectiveness of the right to security in the digital context, especially due to the impossibility of delimiting rigid frames between the real and virtual worlds;
5.2. Analyze information flows and the digital architecture of digital platforms, with an emphasis on networks and social media, in general, due to their plurality;
5.3. Analyze content moderation and content engagement and boosting mechanisms;
5.4. Select cases that culminated in deaths and attacks and started with threats on networks and social media;
5.5. Analyze the feasibility of building a code that identifies possible new attacks to build a pilot;
5.6. Search for partners to implement the pilot.
6. Indication of relevant sources and methods:
The first three objectives will be pursued by applying the bibliographic research method. For the last three, fieldwork will be carried out and qualitative research techniques and instruments will be applied, especially semi-structured interviews.
We will select cases that culminated in deaths and attacks and started with threats on networks and social media. 
The selection of cases must cover all regions of the country (northern region: legal Amazon, northeast, central-west, southeast, and south), have gender parity, and cover the following themes (which have generated more violence in Brazil): right to land (especially indigenous and traditional community in general), right to housing, combating racism, fight for gender equality, LGBTQ rights, fight for freedom of expression, and religious freedom (with an emphasis on combating religious racism).
After applying semi-structured interviews, the attacks will be analyzed to verify common patterns to build a pilot to combat violence on digital platforms.
7. References:
BRASIL. GABINETE DE TRANSIÇÃO GOVERNAMENTAL 2022. Final Report. Brasília, Dec. 2022.
BRASIL. Relatório de Recomendações para o Enfrentamento do Discurso de Ódio e o Extremismo no Brasil. Christian Ingo Lenz Dunker, Débora Diniz Rodrigues, Esther Solano. et al. / Camilo Onoda Luiz Caldas, Manuela Pinto Vieira d ́Ávila, Brenda de Fraga Espindula. et al. (Coord.). 1. ed. Brasília: Ministério dos Direitos Humanos e da Cidadania, 2023. Available in: < https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u9gU06ZWbZaOfqbzcqatqo8yDwWTC1et/view?pli=1>.
CARBONARI, Paulo Cesar. Proteção popular em direitos humanos: sentidos, limites e potencialidades. Passo Fundo: Saluz, 2023. 
CERQUEIRA, Daniel. Atlas da Violência 2021. São Paulo: FBSP, 2021, p. 11. Available in: <https://www.ipea.gov.br/atlasviolencia/arquivos/artigos/5141-atlasdaviolencia2021completo.pdf>.
COMITÊ BRASILEIRO DE DEFENSORAS E DEFENSORES DE DIREITOS HUMANOS. Vidas em Luta: Criminalização e Violência contra Defensoras e Defensores de Direitos Humanos no Brasil. 4º Volume, 2022. Available in: <https://comiteddh.org.br/wp-content/uploads/2022/12/af-vidas-em-luta-2022-web-_VF.pdf>.
SILVA, Tarcísio. Racismo algoritmico: inteligência artificial e discriminação nas redes digitais. São Paulo: SESC, 2022. Available in: https://racismo-algoritmico.pubpub.org/.
UNITED NATIONS. United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Available in: < https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/documents/publications/guidingprinciplesbusinesshr_en.pdf>. 
